add docker compose example for simple scalable mode (#4876)
grafana/loki: docs/sources/installation/simple-scalable-docker.md

---

> title: Simple Scalable through Docker Compose
> weight: 30
> ---
> # Install Grafana Loki in Simple, Scalable mode with Docker Compose
> 
> You can install Grafana Loki and Promtail with Docker Compose if you are evaluating, testing, or developing Loki.
> For production, we recommend installing with Tanka or Helm.
> 
> The configuration acquired with these installation instructions run Loki in Simple Scalable mode (ie. 1 read and 1 write target)
> 
> ## Prerequisites
> 
> - [Docker](https://docs.docker.com/install)
> - [Docker Compose](https://docs.docker.com/compose/install) (optional, only needed for the Docker Compose install method)
> 
> ## Install with Docker Compose
> 
> Copy and paste the commands below into your command line.
> 
> ```bash
> wget https://raw.githubusercontent.com/grafana/loki/main/production/simple-scalable/promtail-config.yaml -O promtail-config.yaml
> wget https://raw.githubusercontent.com/grafana/loki/main/production/simple-scalable/loki-config.yaml -O loki-config.yaml
> wget https://raw.githubusercontent.com/grafana/loki/main/production/simple-scalable/docker-compose.yaml -O docker-compose.yaml
> docker-compose up
> ```
> 
> This will download `loki-config.yaml`, `promtail-config.yaml`, and `docker-compose.yaml` to your current directory.
> From that same directory run `docker-compose up` to bring up the cluster.
> Docker containers are running Loki and Promtail using those config files.
> 
> Navigate to http://localhost:3100/metrics to view the metrics and http://localhost:3100/ready for readiness.
> Navigate to http://localhost:3000 for the grafana instance that has Loki configured as a datasource.
> 
> The image is configured to run by default as user loki with  UID `10001` and GID `10001`. You can use a different user, specially if you are using bind mounts, by specifying the UID with a `docker run` command and using `--user=UID` with numeric UID suited to your needs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Simple scalable cluster
weight: 30
---
# Install and deploy a simple scalable cluster with Docker compose

A local Docker compose installation of Grafana Loki and Promtail is appropriate for an evaluation, testing, or development environment.
Use a Tanka or Helm process for a production environment.

This installation runs Loki in a simple scalable  deployment mode with one read path component and one write path component.

## Prerequisites

- [Docker](https://docs.docker.com/install)
- [Docker Compose](https://docs.docker.com/compose/install)

## Obtain Loki and Promtail configuration files

Download `loki-config.yaml`, `promtail-config.yaml`, and `docker-compose.yaml` to your current directory:

```bash
wget https://raw.githubusercontent.com/grafana/loki/main/production/simple-scalable/promtail-config.yaml -O promtail-config.yaml
wget https://raw.githubusercontent.com/grafana/loki/main/production/simple-scalable/loki-config.yaml -O loki-config.yaml
wget https://raw.githubusercontent.com/grafana/loki/main/production/simple-scalable/docker-compose.yaml -O docker-compose.yaml
docker-compose up
```

Download `loki-config.yaml`, `promtail-config.yaml`, and `docker-compose.yaml` to your current directory:

## Deploy and verify readiness of the Loki cluster

From the directory containing the configuration files, deploy the cluster with `docker-compose`:

```bash
docker-compose up
```

The running Docker containers use the directory's configuration files.

Navigate to `http://localhost:3100/ready` to check for cluster readiness.
Navigate to `http://localhost:3100/metrics` to view the cluster metrics.
Navigate to http://localhost:3000 for the Grafana instance that has Loki configured as a datasource.

The image is configured to run as user `loki` with  UID `10001` and GID `10001`. You can run as a different user, specially if you are using bind mounts, by specifying the UID with a `docker run` command and using `--user=UID` with numeric UID suited to your needs.
```
